# SAWCS-Situation-Identification-in-Smart-Wearable-Computing-Systems
This repository contains the code related to the paper "Situation Identification in Smart Wearable Computing Systems based on Machine Learning and Context Space Theory" under review in Information Fusion Journal.
An architecture of a situation-aware wearable computing system is proposed, consisting of a two-step approach for situation identification. The approach first identifies the daily life activities via a learning-based technique. Simultaneously, the context in which the activities are performed is recognized using Context Space Theory.Finally, the fusion between the context state and the activities allows identifying the complex situations in which the user is acting.For this purpose we use 6 different Python Files:
Preprocessing_Activity:In this file we analyze the dataset and perform preprocessing such as removal of empty values,grouping activities,analyzing users and assigning standard label names.
Feature_Selection:In this file we apply different Machine Learning classifers for selecting the best features of smartphone and smartwatch for activitity recognition.
Model_Tuning:In this file we apply grid search CV for all classfiers for selection of  best hyperparameters.
Activity_Recognition:In this file we use best hyperparmeters that select in model_Tuning File for our classfiers to recognize the activity.For this purpose we use cross validation technique and compute the accuracy,precision,recall and F1 score for every activity.
Context Recongition_Preprocessing:This file basically use the context space theory for collection of context features such as location,time of day,duration,and diameter of movment.
Situation_Identification:At the last step we pass context features with activity an duser ID for recognizing the situations,For this purpose we use 5 different classifer for situation recognition with 5 fold cross validation and also compute the accuracy,precision,recall and F1 score with respect to every situation. 

